docs/management_overview.md, before:

# Management Network and Hardware Overview

This page details the current setup for the management network, used for the *alpha* version of the testbed.

## Physical Setup

![](../../assets/AlphaHardwareSetup_Annotated.png)

|  	| Device 	| Role 	| FQDN 	| IP 	| Services 	|
|-	|-	|-	|-	|-	|-	|
| **1** 	| Cisco RV160 Router 	| Ingress Router 	| cirdan.expeca.org 	| 192.168.1.1 	| NAT, DHCP 	|
| **2** 	| Intel NUC8i7HNK 	| Management 	| galadriel.expeca.org 	| 192.168.1.100 	| Ansible, NTP, DNS 	|
| **3** 	| DELL Optiplex 7060 	| Cloudlet 	| elrond.expeca.org 	| 192.168.1.102 	| - 	|
| **4** 	| DELL Optiplex 9020 	| DB/Storage 	| celeborn.expeca.org 	| 192.168.1.101 	| Fluentd, Database (WIP) 	|
| **5** 	| Custom Build 1 	| Radio Host 1 	| fingolfin.expeca.org 	| 192.168.1.51 	| - 	|
| **6** 	| Custom Build 2 	| Radio Host 2 	| finarfin.expeca.org 	| 192.168.1.52 	| - 	|
| **7** 	| NETGEAR JGS524v2 Switch 	| Management<br>Network Switch 	| - 	| - 	| - 	|
| **8** 	| 13x Raspberry Pi 4B 	| Workload<br>Clients 	| workload-client-[01:13].expeca.org 	| 192.168.1.2[00:12] 	| - 	|

## Network Setup

![](../../assets/WorkloadNetworkAlpha.png)
<!-- <img src="../../assets/WorkloadNetworkAlpha.png" width="450"> -->

## Auth and remote access configuration

SSH access to the network is exposed through port `2222/tcp` of the ingress router at `130.237.53.70`; this port is redirected internally to the SSH daemon listening on port `22/tcp` of the management server `galadriel.expeca.org`.
Once inside the network, you can pivot into any of the other hosts, all of which have SSH daemons listening on port `22/tcp`.

For security, remote access is **only** allowed through *[public key authentication](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/SSH_keys)*.
All devices have a single default user `expeca`, which has no password, and `sudo` is configured for full passwordless access for this user.
The management server `galadriel.expeca.org` additionally has a user for each member of the group; usernames are the same as the respective group member's KTH ID.
These users also have full passwordless `sudo` privileges.

Commit message:

On how to do ssh agent forwarding

docs/management_overview.md, after:

# Management Network and Hardware Overview

This page details the current setup for the management network, used for the *alpha* version of the testbed.

## Physical Setup

![](../../assets/AlphaHardwareSetup_Annotated.png)

|  	| Device 	| Role 	| FQDN 	| IP 	| Services 	|
|-	|-	|-	|-	|-	|-	|
| **1** 	| Cisco RV160 Router 	| Ingress Router 	| cirdan.expeca.org 	| 192.168.1.1 	| NAT, DHCP 	|
| **2** 	| Intel NUC8i7HNK 	| Management 	| galadriel.expeca.org 	| 192.168.1.100 	| Ansible, NTP, DNS 	|
| **3** 	| DELL Optiplex 7060 	| Cloudlet 	| elrond.expeca.org 	| 192.168.1.102 	| - 	|
| **4** 	| DELL Optiplex 9020 	| DB/Storage 	| celeborn.expeca.org 	| 192.168.1.101 	| Fluentd, Database (WIP) 	|
| **5** 	| Custom Build 1 	| Radio Host 1 	| fingolfin.expeca.org 	| 192.168.1.51 	| - 	|
| **6** 	| Custom Build 2 	| Radio Host 2 	| finarfin.expeca.org 	| 192.168.1.52 	| - 	|
| **7** 	| NETGEAR JGS524v2 Switch 	| Management<br>Network Switch 	| - 	| - 	| - 	|
| **8** 	| 13x Raspberry Pi 4B 	| Workload<br>Clients 	| workload-client-[01:13].expeca.org 	| 192.168.1.2[00:12] 	| - 	|

## Network Setup

![](../../assets/WorkloadNetworkAlpha.png)
<!-- <img src="../../assets/WorkloadNetworkAlpha.png" width="450"> -->

## Auth and remote access configuration

SSH access to the network is exposed through port `2222/tcp` of the ingress router at `130.237.53.70`; this port is redirected internally to the SSH daemon listening on port `22/tcp` of the management server `galadriel.expeca.org`.
Once inside the network, you can [pivot](#pivoting-into-hosts-from-management-server-using-agent-forwarding) into any of the other hosts, all of which have SSH daemons listening on port `22/tcp`.

For security, remote access is **only** allowed through *[public key authentication](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/SSH_keys)*.
All devices have a single default user `expeca`, which has no password, and `sudo` is configured for full passwordless access for this user.
The management server `galadriel.expeca.org` additionally has a user for each member of the group; usernames are the same as the respective group member's KTH ID.
These users also have full passwordless `sudo` privileges.

### Pivoting into hosts using agent forwarding
For security reasons, it is not recommended to copy the private key to the management server or even turning on agent forwarding permanently. Instead you can use the tag `-A` along with the SSH Command.  This will forward the key only for the current session. Once done, you can access other hosts in the normal way.

1. If not done already, add the private key to the list of default private-keys in your personal local machine:

            sudo ssh-add /path/to/private/key/id_rsa
	
2. Use `-A` along with SSH to forward the key:

            ssh expeca@130.237.53.70 -p 2222 -A
